As I mentioned in the previous section,
parallelism and scalability of a topic is determined by partitioning.
There are a few more details we need to understand regarding
how you choose the number of partitions for a given topic.
First, Kafka's ordering guarantees only apply within the partition themselves.
Meaning, if I have a topic with three partitions A, B,
and C, I can only be sure that the message is and
topic A are ordered correctly relative to each other.
I can make no assertions about messages and
partition A relative to messages and partition B,
or A relative towards messages and partition C. Let's see what that looks like.
Notice how if I consume off just partition A,
I never see messages 2, 3, or 5.
So here we're consuming from partition A.
This consumer never received 2, 3,
and 5 even though if we were to count sequentially, they come after one.
We only saw 1.6 in order.
That's because ordering, as I said,
is only guaranteed within a partition,
and this case partition A.
Again ordering is not relative to partition B or C. This is critical,
if you need all messages in a topic to be strictly ordered,
then you need to keep your partition count to one.
Choosing the number of partitions can be a tricky endeavor.
There is no such thing as the right number for all scenarios.
I'll provide a link to an excellent blog post from confluent which
walks you through the pros and cons of how to choose the number of partitions.
The gist of this blog post is that you need to
try and understand your throughput goals first.
There is an equation that confident recommends that I'm going to pass along to you.
Just remember, this equation is a starting point.
You will almost certainly need to tweak and refine and your real-world scenarios.
The equation says that you take the maximum of both the desired
throughput divided by the producer and desire throughput divided by the consumer.
This number should be equal to the maximum read write rate of your broker's.
So here's that equation.
We have the maximum of our throughput divided by the number of
producers and the throughput divided by the number of consumers.
So if this number comes out to be 10 and this number is 11,
we would take the maximum of 10 and 11 which is 11,
and we would need 11 partitions to meet our throughput goals.
Let's say that I had a goal throughput of 100 megabytes per second.
I have three producers and five consumers.
So I have three producers and five consumers.
If I divide a throughput goal of 100 megabytes per second by three producers,
I have about 34 partitions if I round.
If I divide a 100 megabyte per second by five consumers,
I have about 20 partitions.
Taking larger of 34 or 20,
I would need 34 partitions for this topic to achieve 100 megabytes per second.
It's worth noting in this example,
I assume that one partition represents about 10 megabytes per second throughput.
This number could be much higher in real-world scenarios.
Finally, partitions do have some performance consequences
such as increased unavailability during re-balances.
Additionally, re-partitions do introduce network latency.
Simply put, it is not advantageous to just choose
an arbitrarily large number of partitions and hope that it works well, you need to test.